So how can we assign icons here.
How can we then also make sure that we use the color.
We want to use.
Let's start with the color.
Before we add the icons just like the create stack navigate navigator function.
Create bottom tab navigator.
All it takes a second argument first argument is your configuration object where you configured a different
tabs and the screens they point at.
Second argument is also an object where you can configure the navigator in general.
And there you have a couple of settings.
Again official docs are the place to go to learn about every single setting here.
One of the more important settings here are did tab bar options.
This is another object and in there you can in detail control how the tab bar appears how it's styled.
You can set up a inactive tint color which is the colored tap has which is currently well not active.
You can set up an active tint color and that's what we actually need here.
You can set up an active background color in an inactive background Khalid color as well of course to
also change the background of the taps here if you want to.
And therefore you have a lot of possibilities to really fine tuned as to your requirements.
And here also the act of tint color because that's all I need here.
But of course feel free to play around with that and change background colors as well and change our
settings and I'll set my active tint color to a value for my color is constant which I import here.
I'll set it to colors accent color.
You haven't used it before but now I'll use it.
And that's this orange color which we now have to show for it this is how easy we change to color.
The active tap has no that's one thing.
Please also note that this of course doesn't add icon.
And how would it.
We're not saying anything about the icon you want to add now for adding the icon the straightforward
pattern I think is that you go to your root conflict here.
So to the conflict where you map screens to your taps and you use the longer form where you at the screen
property and where you then also add navigation options.
By the way you could also do this directly in the component of course by adding navigation options just
as we did it before.
However since meals here actually is a navigator the only place of adding navigation options to that
is of course here.
Or also here on create stack navigator.
There you could all just set up a navigation options key here on the second argument on this object
you pass as a second argument to create stack navigator where you configured the overall navigator to
give this navigator itself some navigation options because the navigation options we assign to the meals
navigator so to the stack navigator are now two options which are taken into account by the tab Navigator
which uses this meals Navigator as a nested navigator and the navigation objects we can set here include
a tap bar I can we can add tap or I can here and tap our I can actually is a function it's not a single
I Can you point it but instead this is a function it's a function dad receives some tab information
you could say whips should go here.
That's the argument we get automatically because this function of course will be called by react navigation
and tap our Ike and this function here has to return the icon which you want to render for this tap.
So in this case for the meals tab
that means that I need to be able to use icons here and for this we can import ionic guns or any other
I can set you one I will use from at Expo vector icons.
Again feel free to install this package.
Normally it should be installed automatically when working with Expo but you can simply run npm install
dash dash save at Expo slash vector dash icons to be sure that you have it installed and you can use
any icon said you want but I always use day on weekends throughout this course I'll stick to them.
With that you can use ionic pins as a component as you learned early on of course.
So here we can just return ionic pins like this to render an ionic an icon and you can now use any I
can name you want here.
And here I want to use Iowa's restaurant which is simply I can.
I found in the list of icons.
This list here which I also showed earlier there.
It does Iowa's restaurant icon which I picked which I now use which I point at here.
This is the icon I want to render.
I'll give it a size of 25.
You can experiment with that.
What I found 25 to look quite decent here.
Indie Tap Bar and a color and that's not important.
Off tap info dot tint color because the color we set here of course should be our tint color.
We set up here.
Now of course we could hardly notice two color acts and color here.
But if we then change it down there we have to remember that we all to change it up there.
The good thing is and that's why this is a function that react navigation calls this function for us
and gives us some vital information about how our tap bar is configured in that tap info object and
that for example includes the 10 color we did set up so that we can dynamically retrieve this here for
coloring the icon so that if we change the color down there for the Tap Bar it's automatically reflected
in our icons up there.
So it's a little convenience we have here which we can use here.
So with that I'm rendering this I can for the meals and for the favorites we can now use a similar approach.
Use that longer form where we set up the screen here and then add navigation options here which will
be merged with any navigation options we set up on favorites screen.
But please note that of course you could absolutely also setup the navigation option options here in
the favorites screen component they offer but to keep it all in one place.
I'll do it in my navigation set up here instead.
So these are my navigation options for this screen.
Justice for this navigator the meals navigator we can of course set up navigation options for a screen.
That's what we did float the entire module after all.
And there I want to do essentially the same so I'll just copy that added here to this navigation options
object and the only thing that difference here is the I Can I want to use here it's Iowa's star instead
of Iowa's restaurant.
And with that if we save this I actually get an error because since I now use J as X and here we need
to import to react of course that's how react works because J is X behind the scenes is transformed
to react create element as you know and therefore now after adding the react import.
Here in the meals navigator J.S. file this works and now we have icons which automatically take our
tint color and that's how easy you can add icons.
Now besides setting the I can you might want to set the label as well and you'll see that by default
label meals and favorites is simply the identifier we assigned here when we set up our tab navigation
meals and favorites.
Now often that makes sense but in case you want to have a different label then in the navigation options
of your screen you load here into this tab.
You can set up a tab bar label property and in their website that is just a string where you could have
favorites with an exclamation mark if you set this you'll see that now you have favorites with an exclamation
mark here instead of just favorites as before.
So you can overwrite this default label which is assumed which normally is your identifier.
If you want a different one you can overwrite it and of course there are more options you can set and
attach to find a link to the official docs for this navigator where you can learn all about the options
you can set up on navigator itself but then also on the navigation options of child screen's so off
nested screens or nested navigators inside of the tab Navigator.
So what we're setting up here.